Procedure to deal with requests for bilateral or multilateral advance pricing agreements.
44GA. (1) Where a person has made request for a bilateral or multilateral advance pricing agreement in an application filed in Form No. 3CED in accordance with rule 10-I, the request shall be dealt with subject to provisions of this rule.
(2) The process for bilateral or multilateral advance pricing agreement shall not be initiated unless the associated enterprise situated outside India has initiated process of advance pricing agreement with the competent authority in the other country.
(3) The competent authority in India shall, on intimation of request of the applicant for a bilateral or multilateral agreement, consult and ascertain willingness of the competent authority in other country or countries, as the case may be, for initiation of negotiation for this purpose.
(4) In case of willingness of the competent authority in other country or countries, as the case may be, the competent authority in India shall enter into negotiation in this behalf and endeavour to reach a set of terms which are acceptable to the competent authority in India and the competent authority in the other country or countries, as the case may be.
(5) In case of an agreement after consultation, the competent authority in India shall formalise a mutual agreement procedure arrangement with the competent authority in other country or countries, as the case may be, and intimate the same to the applicant.
(6) In case of failure to reach agreement on such terms as are mutually acceptable to parties mentioned in sub-rule (4), the applicant shall be informed of the failure to reach an agreement with the competent authority in other country or countries.
(7) The applicant shall not be entitled to be part of discussion between competent authority in India and the competent authority in the other country or countries, as the case may be; however the applicant can communicate or meet the competent authority in India for the purpose of entering into an advance pricing agreement.
(8) The applicant shall convey acceptance or otherwise of the agreement within thirty days of it being communicated.
(9) The applicant, in case the agreement is not acceptable may at its option continue with process of entering into an advance pricing agreement without benefit of mutual agreement process or withdraw application in accordance with rule 10J.
---END OF RULE---