[Credit for tax collected at source for the purposes of sub-section (4) of section 206C.
37-I. (1) Credit for tax collected at source and paid to the Central Government in accordance with provisions of section 206C of the Act, shall be given to the person from whom the tax has been collected, 60a[(hereinafter referred to as the collectee)] on the basis of the information relating to collection of tax furnished by the person responsible for collection of tax at source (hereinafter referred to as the collector) to the income-tax authority or the person authorised by such authority.
60a[(1A) (a) Where under any provisions of the Act, the income of the collectee is assessable in the hands of any person other than the collectee, the credit for the tax collected at source, shall be given to such other person and not to the collectee:
Provided that the collectee shall file a declaration with the collector and the collector shall report the tax collection in the name of the other person in the information relating to collection of tax referred to in sub-rule (1).
(b) The declaration filed by the collectee under the proviso to clause (a) shall contain the name, address, permanent account number of the person to whom credit for the tax collectible at source is to be given, amount of payment in relation to which credit is to be given and reasons for giving credit to such person.
(c) The collector shall issue the certificate for collection of tax at source under sub-section (3) of section 206C of the Act, in the name of the person in whose name credit is shown in the information relating to collection of tax referred to in sub-rule (1) and shall keep the declaration in his safe custody.]
(2) (i) Where tax has been collected at source and paid to the Central Government, credit for such tax shall be given for the assessment year for which the income is assessable to tax.
(ii) Where tax has been collected at source and paid to the Central Government and the lease or license is relatable to more than one year, credit for tax collected at source shall be allowed across those years to which the lease or license relates in the same proportion.
61[(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), for the purposes of sub- section (1F) or, sub-section (1G) or, sub-section (1H) of section 206C, credit for tax collected at source shall be given to the person from whose account tax is collected and paid to the Central Government account for the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which such tax collection is made.]
(3) Credit for tax collected at source and paid to the account of the Central Government shall be granted on the basis of—
(i)   the information relating to collection of tax furnished by the collector to the income-tax authority or the person authorised by such authority; and
(ii)   the information in the return of income in respect of the claim for the credit,
subject to verification in accordance with the risk management strategy formulated by the Board from time to time.]
---END OF RULE---