Time and mode of payment to Government account of tax deducted at source or tax paid under sub-section (1A) of section 192.
30. (1) All sums deducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XVII-B byan office of the Government shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government—
(a)   on the same day where the tax is paid without production of an income-tax challan; and
(b)   on or before seven days from the end of the month in which the deduction is made or income-tax is due under sub-section (1A) of section 192, where tax is paid accompanied by an income-tax challan.
(2) All sums deducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XVII-B by deductors other than an office of the Government shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government—
(a)   on or before 30th day of April where the income or amount is credited or paid in the month of March; and
(b)   in any other case, on or before seven days from the end of the month in which—
(i)   the deduction is made; or
(ii)   income-tax is due under sub-section (1A) of section 192.
(2A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), any sum deducted under section 194-IA shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government within a period of 7[thirty] days from the end of the month in which the deduction is made and shall be accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QB.
8[(2B) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), any sum deducted under section 194-IB shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government within a period of thirty days from the end of the month in which the deduction is made and shall be accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QC.]
9[(2C) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), any sum deducted under section 194M shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government within a period of thirty days from the end of the month in which the deduction is made and shall be accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QD.]
10[(2D) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2), any sum deducted under section 194S by a specified person referred to in that section shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government within a period of thirty days from the end of the month in which the deduction is made and shall be accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QE.]
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (2), in special cases, the Assessing Officer may, with the prior approval of the Joint Commissioner, permit quarterly payment of the tax deducted under section 192 or section 194A or section 194D or section 194H for the quarters of the financial year specified to in column (2) of the Table below by the date referred to in column (3) of the said Table:—
TABLE
Sl. No. Quarter of the financial year ended on Date for quarterly payment
(1) (2) (3)
1. 30th June 7th July
2. 30th September 7th October
3. 31st December 7th January
4. 31st March 30th April
B. Mode of payment
(4) In the case of an office of the Government, where tax has been paid to the credit of the Central Government without the production of a challan, the Pay and Accounts Officer or the Treasury Officer or the Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officer or any other person by whatever name called to whom the deductor reports the tax so deducted and who is responsible for crediting such sum to the credit of the Central Government, 11[shall submit a statement in Form No. 24G to the agency authorised by the Principal Director of Income-tax (Systems) in respect of tax deducted by the deductors and reported to him.]
12[(4A) Statement referred to in sub-rule (4) shall be furnished—
(a)   on or before the 30th day of April where the statement relates to the month of March; and
(b)   in any other case, on or before 15 days from the end of relevant month.
(4B) Statement referred to in sub-rule (4) shall be furnished in the following manner, namely:—
(a)   electronically under digital signature in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (5); or
(b)   electronically alongwith the verification of the statement in Form No. 27A or verified through an electronic process in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (5).
(4C) The persons referred to in sub-rule (4) shall intimate the number (hereinafter referred to as the Book Identification Number) generated by the agency to each of the deductors in respect of whom the sum deducted has been credited.]
13[(5) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, formats and standards for the purposes of furnishing and verification of the statements and shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration in relation to furnishing of the information and verification of the statements.]
(6)(i) Where tax has been deposited accompanied by an income-tax challan, the amount of tax so deducted or collected shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it within the time specified in clause (b) of sub-rule (1) or in sub-rule (2) or in sub-rule (3) into any branch of the Reserve Bank of India or of the State Bank of India or of any authorised bank.
(ii) Where tax is to be deposited in accordance with clause (i), by persons referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 125, the amount deducted shall be electronically remitted into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank accompanied by an electronic income-tax challan.
(6A) Where tax deducted is to be deposited accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QB, the amount of tax so deducted shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it electronically within the time specified in sub-rule (2A) into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank.
14[(6B) Where tax deducted is to be deposited accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QC, the amount of tax so deducted shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it electronically within the time specified in sub-rule (2B) into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorized bank.]
15[(6C) Where tax deducted is to be deposited accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QD, the amount of tax so deducted shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it electronically within the time specified in sub-rule (2C) into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank.]
16[(6D) Where tax deducted is to be deposited accompanied by a challan-cum-statement in Form No. 26QE, the amount of tax so deducted shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it electronically within the time specified in sub-rule (2D) into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank.]
(7) For the purpose of this rule, the amount shall be construed as electronically remitted to the Reserve Bank of India or to the State Bank of India or to any authorised bank, if the amount is remitted by way of—
(a)   internet banking facility of the Reserve Bank of India or of the State Bank of India or of any authorised bank; or
(b)   debit card.
(7A) The Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedure, formats and standards for the purposes of remitting the amount electronically to the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank and shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration in relation to the remitting of the amount electronically in the manner so specified.
(8) Where tax is deducted before the 1st day of April, 2010, the provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood immediately before their substitution by the Income-tax (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 2010.
---END OF RULE---