Furnishing of authorisation and maintenance of documents, etc., for the purposes of section 94A.
21AC. (1) For the purposes of clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 94A, the authorisation to be submitted by the assessee, shall be in Form No. 10FC.
(2) The assessee shall cause the first copy of the duly filled Form No. 10FC to be deposited with or transmitted to the financial institution referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 94A.
(3) The second copy of the Form No. 10FC along with the evidence of the first copy of said Form having been deposited or transmitted to the financial institution shall be submitted by the assessee to the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction over him.
(4) For the purpose of ensuring that the authorisation in Form No. 10FC is legally enforceable, the assessee shall take all necessary steps as are required under any law for the time being in force in India or outside India.
(5) For the purposes of clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 94A, the assessee who has entered into a transaction with a person located in a notified jurisdictional area (hereinafter referred to as the specified person) shall, in addition to information and documents referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 10D, keep and maintain the following information and documents, namely:—
(a)   a description of the ownership structure of the specified person, inclu-ding name and address of individuals or other entities, whether located in the notified jurisdictional area or outside, having directly or indirectly more than ten per cent shareholding or ownership interests;
(b)   a profile of the multinational group of which the specified person is a part along with the name, address, legal status and country of tax residence of each of the enterprises comprised in the group with whom the assessee has entered into a transaction, and ownership linkage among them;
(c)   a broad description of the business of the specified person and the industry it operates in;
(d)   any other information, data or document, which may be relevant for the transaction with the specified person.
(6) The information and documents specified in sub-rule (5) shall be for the period upto the due date of filing of return of income under sub-section (1) of section 139.
(7) The information and documents specified in sub-rule (5) shall be kept and maintained for a period of eight years from the end of the relevant assessment year.
---END OF RULE---