Procedure.
10L. (1) If the application referred to in rule 10K has been allowed to be proceeded with, the team or the competent authority in India or his representative shall process the same in consultation and discussion with the applicant in accordance with provisions of this rule.
(2) For the purpose of sub-rule (1), it shall be competent for the team or the competent authority in India or its representative to—
(i)   hold meetings with the applicant on such time and date as it deem fit;
(ii)   call for additional document or information or material from the applicant;
(iii)   visit the applicant's business premises; or
(iv)   make such inquiries as it deems fit in the circumstances of the case.
(3) For the purpose of sub-rule (1), the applicant may, if he considers it necessary, provide further document and information for consideration of the team or the competent authority in India or his representative.
(4) For bilateral or multilateral agreement, the competent authority shall forward the application to Director General of Income-tax (International Taxation) who shall assign it to one of the teams.
(5) The team, to whom the application has been assigned under sub-rule (4), shall carry out the enquiry and prepare a draft report which shall be forwarded by the Director General of Income-tax (International Taxation) to the competent authority in India.
(6) If the applicant makes a request for bilateral or multilateral agreement in its application, the competent authority in India shall in addition to the procedure provided in this rule invoke the procedure provided in rule 44GA.
(7) The Director General of Income-tax (International Taxation) (for unilateral agreement) or the competent authority in India (for bilateral or multilateral agreement) and the applicant shall prepare a proposed mutually agreed draft agreement enumerating the result of the process referred to in sub-rule (1) including the effect of the arrangement referred to in sub-rule (5) of rule 44GA which has been accepted by the applicant in accordance with sub-rule (8) of the said rule.
(8) The agreement shall be entered into by the Board with the applicant after its approval by the Central Government.
(9) Once an agreement has been entered into the Director General of Income-tax (International Taxation) or the competent authority in India, as the case may be, shall cause a copy of the agreement to be sent to the Commissioner of Income-tax having jurisdiction over the assessee.
---END OF RULE---