Certificate for claiming relief under an agreement referred to in sections 90 and 90A.
21AB. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), for the purposes of sub-section (5) of section 90 and sub-section (5) of section 90A, the following information shall be provided by an assessee in Form No. 10F, namely:—
(i)   Status (individual, company, firm, etc.) of the assessee;
(ii)   Nationality (in case of an individual) or country or specified territory of incorporation or registration (in case of others);
(iii)   Assessee's tax identification number in the country or specified territory of residence and in case there is no such number, then, a unique number on the basis of which the person is identified by the Government of the country or the specified territory of which the assessee claims to be a resident;
(iv)   Period for which the residential status, as mentioned in the certificate referred to in sub-section (4) of section 90 or sub-section (4) of section 90A, is applicable; and
(v)   Address of the assessee in the country or specified territory outside India, during the period for which the certificate, as mentioned in (iv) above, is applicable.
(2) The assessee may not be required to provide the information or any part thereof referred to in sub-rule (1) if the information or the part thereof, as the case may be, is contained in the certificate referred to in sub-section (4) of section 90 or sub-section (4) of section 90A.
(2A) The assessee shall keep and maintain such documents as are necessary to substantiate the information provided under sub-rule (1) and an income-tax authority may require the assessee to provide the said documents in relation to a claim by the said assessee of any relief under an agreement referred to in sub-section (1) of section 90 or sub-section (1) of section 90A, as the case may be.
(3) An assessee, being a resident in India, shall, for obtaining a certificate of residence for the purposes of an agreement referred to in section 90 and section 90A, make an application in Form No. 10FA to the Assessing Officer.
(4) The Assessing Officer on receipt of an application referred to in sub-rule (3) and being satisfied in this behalf, shall issue a certificate of residence in respect of the assessee in Form No. 10FB.
---END OF RULE---