65[Requirement for approval of institution of fund under clause (vi) of sub-section (5) of section 80G.
11AA. (1) An application for approval under clause (vi) of sub-section (5) of section 80G, the institution or fund (hereinafter referred to as 'the applicant') shall be made in the following Form, namely:—
(a)   Form No. 10A in case of application under 66[clause (i) or sub-clause (A) of] clause (iv) of first proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner authorised by the Board; or
67[(b)   Form No. 10AB in case of application under clause (ii) or clause (iii) or sub-clause (B) of clause (iv) of the first proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner authorised under the said proviso.]
(2) The application under sub-rule (1) shall be accompanied by the following documents, as required by Form No. 10A or 10AB, as the case may be, namely:—
(a)   where the applicant is created, or established, under an instrument, self-certified copy of the instrument;
(b)   where the applicant is created, or established, otherwise than under an instrument, self-certified copy of the document evidencing the creation or establishment of the applicant;
(c)   self-certified copy of registration with Registrar of Companies or Registrar of Firms and Societies or Registrar of Public Trusts, as the case may be;
(d)   self-certified copy of registration under Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (42 of 2010), if the applicant is registered under such Act;
(e)   self-certified copy of existing order granting registration under clause (vi) of sub-section (5) of section 80G;
(f)   self-certified copy of order of rejection of application for grant of approval under clause (vi) of sub-section (5) of section 80G, if any;
(g)   where the applicant has been in existence during any year or years prior to the financial year in which the application for registration is made, self-certified copies of the annual accounts of the applicant relating to such prior year or years (not being more than three years immediately preceding the year in which the said application is made) for which such accounts have been made up;
(h)   note on the activities of the applicant.
(3) Form No. 10A or 10AB, as the case may be, shall be furnished electronically, —
(i)   under digital signature, if the return of income is required to be furnished under digital signature;
(ii)   through electronic verification code in a case not covered under clause (i).
(4) Form No. 10A or 10AB, as the case may be, shall be verified by the person who is authorised to verify the return of income under section 140, as applicable to the applicant.
(5) On receipt of an application in Form No.10A, the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, authorised by the Board shall pass an order in writing granting approval under clause (i) or (iii) of the second proviso read with third proviso of sub-section (5) of section 80G in Form No. 10AC and issue a sixteen digit alphanumeric Unique Registration Number (URN) to the applicants making application as per clause (a) of sub-rule (1).
(6) If, at any point of time, it is noticed that Form No. 10A has not been duly filled in by not providing, fully or partly, or by providing false or incorrect information or documents required to be provided under sub-rule (1) or (2) or by not complying with the requirements of sub-rule (3) or (4), the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, as referred to in sub-rule (5), after giving an opportunity of being heard, may cancel the approval granted in Form No. 10AC and Unique Registration Number (URN), issued under sub-rule (5), and such approval or such Unique Registration Number (URN) shall be deemed to have never been granted or issued.
68[(7) In case of an application made under,—
(i)   clause (iv) of the first proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G as it stood immediately before its amendment vide the Finance Act, 2023; or
(ii)   sub-clause (A) of clause (iv) of first proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G,
the provisional approval shall be effective from the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which such application is made.]
(8) In case of an application made in Form No. 10AB under clause (ii) of sub-rule (1), the order of approval or rejection or cancellation under second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G shall be in Form No. 10AD and in case if the approval is granted, sixteen digit alphanumeric number Unique Registration Number (URN) shall be issued, by the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner referred to in second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G.
(9) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be, shall:
(i)   lay down the data structure, standards and procedure of,—
(a)   furnishing and verification of Form No. 10A or 10AB, as the case may be;
(b)   passing the order under second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 80G;
(ii)   be responsible for formulating and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the said application made or order so passed as the case may be.
---END OF RULE---