5[Application for grant of certificate for determination of appropriate proportion of sum (other than Salary), payable to non-resident, chargeable in case of the recipients.
29BA. (1) An application by a person for determination of appropriate proportion of sum chargeable in the case of non-resident recipient under sub-section (2) or sub-section (7) of section 195 shall be made in Form 15E electronically,—
(i)   under digital signature; or
(ii)   through electronic verification code.
(2) The Assessing Officer, in order to satisfy himself, shall examine whether the sum being paid or credited is chargeable to tax under the provisions of the Act read with the relevant Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, if any, and if the sum is chargeable to tax he shall proceed to determine the appropriate proportion of such sum chargeable to tax.
(3) The Assessing Officer shall examine the application and on being satisfied that the whole of such sum would not be the income chargeable in case of the recipient, may issue a certificate determining appropriate proportion of such sum chargeable under the provision of this Act, for the purposes of tax deduction under sub-section (1) of section 195.
(4) While examining the application, the Assessing Officer shall also take into consideration, following information in relation to the recipient:—
(i)   tax payable on estimated income of the previous year relevant to the assessment year;
(ii)   tax payable on the assessed or returned or estimated income, as the case may be, of preceding four previous years;
(iii)   existing liability under the Income-tax Act, 1961(43 of 1961) and Wealth-tax Act, 1957(27 of 1957);
(iv)   advance tax payment, tax deducted at source and tax collected at source for the assessment year relevant to the previous year till the date of making application under sub-rule (1).
(5) The certificate shall be valid only for the payment to non-resident named therein and for such period of the previous year as may be specified in the certificate, unless it is cancelled by the Assessing Officer at any time before the expiry of the specified period.
(6) An application for a fresh certificate may be made, if the assessee so desires, after the expiry of the period of validity of the earlier certificate or within three months before the expiry thereof.
(7) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be, shall lay down procedures, formats and standards for ensuring secure capture and transmission of data and uploading of documents and the Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall also be responsible for evolving and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the furnishing of Form No. 15E and issuance of Certificate under sub-rule (3).]
---END OF RULE---