Statement of collection of tax under proviso to sub-section (3) of section 206C.
31AA. (1) Every collector, shall, in accordance with the provisions of the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 206C, deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the person authorised by the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), a quarterly statement in Form No. 27EQ.
(2) Statements referred to in sub-rule (1) for the quarter of the financial year ending with the date specified in column (2) of the Table below shall be furnished by the due date specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said Table:—
TABLE
Sl. No. Quarter of the financial year ended Due date
(1) (2) (3)
1. 30th June 15th July of the financial year
2. 30th September 15th October of the financial year
3. 31st December 15th January of the financial year
4. 31st March 15th May of the financial year immediately following the financial year in which collection is made
(3) (i) The statement referred to in sub-rule (1) may be furnished in any of the following manners, namely:—
(a)   furnishing the statement in paper form;
(b)   furnishing the statement electronically under digital signature in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (5);
(c)   furnishing the statement electronically along with the verification of the statement in Form 27A or verified through an electronic process in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (5).
(ii) Where,—
(a)   the collector is an office of the Government; or
(b)   the collector is the principal officer of a company; or
(c)   the collector is a person who is required to get his accounts audited under section 44AB in the immediately preceding financial year;
(d)   the number of collectee's records in a statement for any quarter of the financial year are twenty or more,
the collector shall furnish the statement in the manner specified in [item (b) or item (c) of clause (i)].
(iii) Where the collector is a person other than the person referred to in clause (ii), the statement referred to in sub-rule (1) may, at his option, be delivered or cause to be delivered in the manner specified in [item (b) or item (c) of clause (i)].
(4) The collector at the time of preparing statements of tax collected shall,—
(i)   quote his tax deduction and collection account number (TAN) in the statement;
(ii)   quote his permanent account number (PAN) in the statement except in the case where the collector is an office of the Government;
(iii)   quote the permanent account number of all collectees;
(iv)   furnish particulars of the tax paid to the Central Government including book identification number or challan identification number, as the case may be;
(v)   furnish particulars of amount received or debited on which tax was not collected in view of the furnishing of declaration under sub-section (1A) of section 206C by the buyer;]
39 [(vi)   furnish particulars of amount received or debited on which tax was not collected,—
(a)   by the authorised dealer from the buyer under the first proviso to sub-section (1G) of section 206C;
(b)   by the authorised dealer under 39a[fifth proviso] to sub-section (1G) of section 206C; and
(c)   by the authorised dealer or seller of an overseas tour program from the buyer under clause (i) or clause (ii) of the 39b[sixth proviso] of sub-section (1G) of section 206C or in view of any notification issued under clause (ii) of the 39b[sixth proviso] of sub-section (1G) of section 206C;
(vii)   furnish particulars of amount received or debited on which tax was not collected from the buyer,—
(a)   under second proviso to sub-section (1H) of section 206C; and
(b)   under sub-clause (A) or sub-clause (B) or sub-clause (C), or in view of any notification issued under sub-clause (C), of clause (a) of the Explanation to sub-section (1H) of section 206C 39c[;]]
39d [(viii) furnish particulars of amount received or debited on which tax was not collected or tax was collected at a lower rate in view of any notification issued under sub-section (12) of section 206C.]
(5) The Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, formats and standards for the purposes of furnishing and verification of the statements and shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration in relation to furnishing and verification of the statements in the manner so specified.
(6) Where a statement of tax collected at source is to be furnished for tax collected before the 1st day of April, 2010, the provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood immediately before their substitution by the Income-tax (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 2010.]
---END OF RULE---