Statement to be registered with the competent authority under section 269AB.
48DD. (1) The statement required to be registered with the competent authority under sub-section (2) of section 269AB shall be in Form No. 37EE and shall be signed and verified in the manner indicated therein by each of the parties to the transaction referred to in sub-section (1) of that section or by any of the parties to such transaction acting on behalf of himself and on behalf of the other parties.
(2) The statement in Form No. 37EE shall be made in duplicate and shall be furnished to the competent authority within a period of thirty days from the date on which the transaction referred to in sub-section (1) of section 269AB takes place :
Provided that in relation to any such transaction which has taken place between the 1st day of July, 1982 and the date of the publication of the Income-tax (Eighth Amendment) Rules, 1982 in the Official Gazette, the provisions of this sub-rule shall have effect as if for the words "thirty days", the words "sixty days" had been substituted.
(3) Where the competent authority considers that the statement in Form No. 37EE furnished under sub-section (2) of section 269AB is defective, he may intimate the defect to the parties or, as the case may be, the party furnishing such statement and give them an opportunity to rectify the defect within a period of fifteen days from the date of such intimation or within such further period which, on an application made in this behalf, the competent authority may, in his discretion allow ; and if the defect is not rectified within the period of fifteen days or, as the case may be, the further period so allowed, then, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this rule, the statement in Form No. 37EE shall be treated as an invalid statement and the provisions of the Act shall apply as if the parties to the transaction had not complied with the provision of section 269AB.
(4) The competent authority shall, within a period of sixty days from the date of the receipt by him of the statement in Form No. 37EE or, as the case may be, from the date of the rectification of the defects under sub-rule (3), make an order registering the statement under section 269AB ; and if no such order is made by the competent authority within the said period of sixty days, the statement shall be deemed to have been registered under section 269AB as on the date on which the said period of sixty days expires.
---END OF RULE---