Time and manner in which persons referred to in rule 114C shall furnish a statement containing particulars of Form No. 60.
114D. (1) Every person referred to in,—
(I)   24[clauses (a)] to (k) of sub-rule (1) of rule 114C; and
(II)   sub-rule (2) of rule 114C and who is required to get his accounts audited under section 44AB of the Act,
who has received any declaration in Form No. 60, on or after the 1st day of January, 2016, in relation to a transaction specified in rule 114B, shall—
(i)   furnish a statement in Form No. 61 containing particulars of such declaration to the Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and Criminal Investigation) or the Joint Director of Income-tax (Intelligence and Criminal Investigation) through online transmission of electronic data to a server designated for this purpose and obtain an acknowledgement number; and
(ii)   retain Form No. 60 for a period of six years from the end of the financial year in which the transaction was undertaken.
(2) The statement referred to in clause (i) of sub-rule (1) shall,—
(i)   where the declarations are received by the 30th September, be furnished by the 31st October of that year; and
(ii)   where the declarations are received by the 31st March, be furnished by the 30th April of the financial year immediately following the financial year in which the form is received :
25[Provided that the statement in respect of the transactions listed in clause (ii) of column (3) of serial number (10) of the Table under rule 114B shall be furnished on or before the 15th day of January, 2017.]
(3) The statement referred to in clause (i) of sub-rule (1) shall be verified—
(a)   in a case where the person furnishing the statement is an assessee as defined in clause (7) of section 2 of the Act, by a person specified in section 140 of the Act;
(b)   in any other case, by the person referred to in rule 114C.]
26[(4) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, data structures, and standards for ensuring secure capture and transmission of data, evolving and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the statement referred to in sub-clause (i) of sub-rule (1).]
---END OF RULE---