Time and mode of payment to Government account of tax collected at source under section 206C.
37CA. (1) All sums collected in accordance with the provisions of 52[***] section 206C by an office of the Government shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government—
(a)   on the same day where the tax is so paid without production of an income-tax challan; and
(b)   on or before seven days from the end of the month in which the collection is made, where tax is paid accompanied by an income-tax challan.
(2) All sums collected in accordance with the provisions of 52[***] section 206C by collectors other than an office of the Government shall be paid to the credit of the Central Government within one week from the last day of the month in which the collection is made.
(3) In the case of an office of the Government, where tax has been paid to the credit of the Central Government without the production of a challan, the Pay and Accounts Officer or the Treasury Officer or the Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officer or any other person by whatever name called to whom the collector reports the tax so collected and who is responsible for crediting such sum to the credit of the Central Government, 53[shall submit a statement in Form No. 24G to the agency authorised by the Principal Director of Income-tax (Systems) in respect of tax collected by the collectors and reported to him.]
54[(3A) Statement referred to in sub-rule (3) shall be furnished—
(a)   on or before the 30th day of April where the statement relates to the month of March; and
(b)   in any other case, on or before 15 days from the end of relevant month.
(3B) Statement referred to in sub-rule (3) shall be furnished in the following manner, namely:—
(a)   electronically under digital signature in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (4); or
(b)   electronically along with the verification of the statement in Form No. 27A or verified through an electronic process in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (4).]
55[(4) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, formats and standards for the purposes of furnishing and verification of the statements and shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration in relation to furnishing of the information and verification of the statements.]
(5) (i) Where tax has been deposited accompanied by an income-tax challan, the tax collected under 56[***] section 206C shall be deposited to the credit of the Central Government by remitting it within the time specified in clause (b) of sub-rule (1) or in sub-rule (2) into any branch of the Reserve Bank of India or of the State Bank of India or of any authorised bank.
(ii) Where tax is to be deposited in accordance with clause (i), by persons referred to in sub-rule (1) of rule 125, the amount collected shall be electronically remitted into the Reserve Bank of India or the State Bank of India or any authorised bank accompanied by an electronic income-tax challan.
(6) For the purpose of this rule, the amount shall be construed as electronically remitted to the Reserve Bank of India or to the State Bank of India or to any authorised bank, if the amount is remitted by way of—
(a)   internet banking facility of the Reserve Bank of India or of the State Bank of India or of any authorised bank; or
(b)   debit card.
(7) Where tax is collected before the 1st day of April, 2010, the provisions of this rule shall apply as they stood immediately before their substitution by the Income-tax (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 2010.
---END OF RULE---