PART V
REGISTRATION OF FIRMS
Application for registration of a firm.
22. (1) An application for registration of a firm for the purposes of the Act shall be made in accordance with the provisions of sub-rules (2) to (5).
(2) Where the application is made before the end of the relevant previous year—
(i)   and where no change in the constitution of the firm or the shares of the partners has taken place during the previous year before the date of the application—
(a)   the application shall be made in Form No. 11; and
(b)   it shall be accompanied by the original instrument evidencing the partnership at the date of the application together with a copy thereof. A certified copy of the instrument together with a duplicate copy thereof may be attached to the application if, for sufficient reason, the original instrument cannot be produced;
(ii)   and where any change or changes in the constitution of the firm or the shares of the partners have taken place during the previous year before the date of the application—
(a)   the application shall be made in Form No. 11A; and
(b)   it shall be accompanied by the original instrument or instruments, evidencing the partnership as in existence from time to time during the previous year up to the date of the application together with copies thereof. A certified copy of the instrument or instruments together with a duplicate copy thereof may be attached to the application if, for sufficient reason, the original instrument or instruments cannot be produced.
(3) Where after the date of making an application under sub-rule (2), any change or changes in the constitution of the firm or the shares of the partners have taken place during the previous year, a fresh application shall be made after each such change takes place in accordance with the provisions of sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (ii) of sub-rule (2) and the time-limit prescribed in sub-section (4) of section 184 shall apply to each such application.
(4) Where the application is made after the end of the relevant previous year—
(i)   and where no change in the constitution of the firm or the shares of the partners has taken place during the said previous year and up to the date of the application, the application shall be made in accordance with the provisions of sub-clauses (a) and (b) of clause (i) of sub-rule (2);
(ii)   and where any change or changes in the constitution of the firm or the shares of the partners have taken place during the said previous year and/or after the end of the previous year but before the date of the application—
(a)   the application shall be made in Form No. 11A; and
(b)   it shall be accompanied by the original instrument or instruments evidencing the partnership as in existence from time to time during the previous year and up to the date of the application together with copies thereof. A certified copy of the instrument or instruments together with a duplicate copy thereof may be attached to the application if, for sufficient reason, the original instrument or instruments cannot be produced.
(5) The application shall be signed personally by all the partners (not being minors) in the firm as constituted at the date of the application and, in the case of a dissolved firm, personally by all the persons (not being minors) who were partners in the firm immediately before its dissolution and by the legal representative of any such partner who is deceased so, however, that in the case of any partner who is absent from India or is a lunatic or an idiot, the application may be signed by any person duly authorised by him in this behalf, or, as the case may be, by a person entitled under law to represent him.
---END OF RULE---