36[Intimation under fifth proviso to sub-section (1) of section 35.
5CA. (1) An intimation under fifth proviso to sub-section (1) of section 35 by a research association, university, college or other institution referred to in clause (ii) or clause (iii) or the company referred to in clause (iia) of said sub-section (hereinafter referred to as 'the applicant') shall be made in Form No.10A to the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner authorised by the Board.
(2) The application under sub-rule (1) shall be accompanied by the following documents, as required by Form No.10A, namely:—
(a)   where the applicant is created or established under an instrument, self-certified copy of the instrument;
(b)   where the applicant created or established otherwise than under an instrument, self-certified copy of the document evidencing the creation or establishment of the applicant;
(c)   self-certified copy of registration with Registrar of Companies or Registrar of Firms and Societies or Registrar of Public Trusts or other registration document, as the case may be;
(d)   self-certified copy of registration under Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 (42 of 2010), if the applicant is registered under such Act;
(e)   self-certified copy of existing Notification granting approval under section 35.
(3) Form No. 10A shall be furnished electronically, —
(i)   under digital signature, if the return of income is required to be furnished under digital signature;
(ii)   through electronic verification code in a case not covered under clause (i).
(4) Form No. 10A shall be verified by the person who is authorised to verify the return of income under section 140, as applicable to the applicant.
(5) On receipt of an application in Form No. 10A, the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, authorised by the Board shall issue a sixteen digit alphanumeric Unique Registration Number (URN) to the applicants making application as per sub-rule (1).
(6) If, at any point of time, it is noticed that Form No.10A has not been duly filled in by not providing, fully or partly, or by providing false or incorrect information or documents required to be provided under sub-rule (1) or (2) or by not complying with the requirements of sub-rule (3) or (4), the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner, after giving an opportunity of being heard, may cancel the Unique Registration Number (URN) issued under sub-rule (5) and such Unique Registration Number (URN) shall be deemed to have never been issued.
(7) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be, shall:
(i)   lay down the data structure, standards and procedure of furnishing and verification of Form No. 10A; and
(ii)   be responsible for formulating and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the said form so furnished.]
---END OF RULE---