16[Relief in tax payable under sub-section (1) of section 115JB due to operation of sub-section (2D) of section 115JB.
10RB. (1) For the purposes of sub-section (2D) of section 115JB, the tax payable by the assessee company under sub-section (1) of section 115JB, for the previous year referred to in that section, shall be reduced by the following amount, namely:—
(A-B) - (D-C), where,
A = tax payable by the assessee company under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of the previous year including the past income;
B = tax payable by the assessee company under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of the previous year after reducing the book profit with the past income;
C = Aggregate of tax payable by the assessee company under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of those past year or years to which the past income belongs;
D = Aggregate of tax payable by the assessee company under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of past year or years, referred to in item C, after increasing the book profit with the relevant past income of such year or years:
Provided that if the value of (A-B) - (D-C) in the formula is negative, its value shall be deemed to be zero.
(2) For the purposes of sub-rule (1) past income shall be the amount of income of past year or years included in the book profit or the previous year on account of an advance pricing agreement entered into by the assessee under section 92CC or on account of secondary adjustment required to be made under section 92CE.
(3) On application of provision of sub-rule (1), the tax credit allowed to the assessee under section 115JAA shall be reduced by the amount which is equal to the amount of reduction that has been allowed under sub-rule (1).
(4) The assessee company shall make a claim for relief under sub-section (2D) of section 115JB in Form No. 3CEEA electronically by uploading signed printout of said Form in the manner specified by the Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be.
(5) Form No. 3CEEA shall be verified by the person who is authorised to verify the return of income of the assessee company under section 140.
(6) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be, shall specify the procedure for filing of the Form No. 3CEEA and shall also be responsible for evolving and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the statements so furnished under this rule.
Explanation 1.—The value of amount "A" in the formula shall be deemed to be zero, if there is no tax payable under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of that previous year including the past income.
Explanation 2.—The value of amount "B" in the formula shall be deemed to be zero, if there is no tax payable under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of that previous year after reducing the book profit with the past income.
Explanation 3.—For the purposes of calculation of amount "C" in the formula, if in any past year or years there is no tax payable under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of that year or years, the tax payable for that year or years shall be deemed to be zero.
Explanation 4.—For the purposes of calculation of amount "D" in the formula, if in any past year or years there is no tax payable under sub-section (1) of section 115JB on the book profit of that year or years after increasing the book profit with the relevant past income of such year or years, the tax payable for that year or years shall be deemed to be zero.]
---END OF RULE---