75[Exercise of option under sub-section (6) of section 115BAC.
21AGA. (1) The option to be exercised in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 115BAC by a person, being an individual or Hindu undivided family, or an association of persons (other than a co-operative society) or a body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or an artificial juridical person referred to in sub-clause (vii) of clause (31) of section 2, for any previous year relevant to the assessment year beginning on or after the 1st day of April, 2024, shall be,—
(a)   in Form No. 10-IEA on or before the due date specified under sub-section (1) of section 139 for furnishing the return of income for such assessment year, in the case of a person having income from business or profession;
(b)   in the return of income to be furnished under sub-section (1) of section 139 for such assessment year, in the case of a person not having income from business or profession as referred to in clause (i).
(2) The withdrawal of option under the proviso to sub-section (6) of section 115BAC shall also be in Form No. 10-IEA.
(3) Form No. 10-IEA shall be furnished electronically either under digital signature or electronic verification code.
(4) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems), as the case may be, shall, —
(a)   specify the procedure for furnishing of Form No. 10-IEA;
(b)   specify the data structure, standards and manner of generation of electronic verification code, referred to in sub-rule (3), for verification of the person furnishing the said Form; and
(c)   be responsible for formulating and implementing appropriate security, archival and retrieval policies in relation to the Form so furnished.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this rule "electronic verification code" means a code generated for the purpose of electronic verification of the person furnishing the Form as per the data structure and standards specified by the Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) or the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) as the case may be.]
---END OF RULE---