6[Declaration by person claiming receipt of certain incomes without deduction of tax.
29C. (1) A declaration under sub-section (1) or under sub-section (1A) of section 197A shall be in Form No. 15G and declaration under sub-section (1C) of section 197A shall be in Form No. 15H.
(2) The declaration referred to in sub-rule (1) may be furnished in any of the following manners, namely:—
(a)   in paper form;
(b)   electronically after duly verifying through an electronic process in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified under sub-rule (7).
(3) The person responsible for paying any income of the nature referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (1A) or sub-section (1C) of section 197A, shall allot a unique identification number to each declaration received by him in Form No.15G and Form No.15H respectively during every quarter of the financial year in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified by the Principal Director-General of Income-tax (Systems) under sub-rule (7).
(4) The person referred to in sub-rule (3) shall furnish the particulars of declaration received by him during any quarter of the financial year along with the unique identification number allotted by him under sub-rule (3) in the statement of deduction of tax of the said quarter in accordance with the provisions of clause (vii) of sub-rule (4) of rule 31A.
(5) The person referred to in sub-rule (3) shall furnish the statement of deduction of tax referred to in rule 31A containing the particulars of declaration received by him during each quarter of the financial year along with the unique identification number allotted by him under sub-rule (3) in accordance with the provisions of clause (vii) of the sub-rule (4) of rule 31A irrespective of the fact that no tax has been deducted in the said quarter.
(6) Subject to the provisions of sub-rules (4) and (5), an income-tax authority may, before the end of seven years from the end of the financial year in which the declaration referred to in sub-rule (1) has been received, require the person referred in sub-rule (3) to furnish or make available the declaration for the purposes of verification or any proceeding under the Act in accordance with the procedures, formats and standards specified by Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) specified under sub-rule (7).
(7) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall specify the procedures, formats and standards for the purposes of furnishing and verification of the declaration, allotment of unique identification number and furnishing or making available the declaration to the income-tax authority and shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration in relation to the furnishing of the particulars of declaration in accordance with the provisions of sub-rules (4) and (5).
(8) The Principal Director General of Income-tax (Systems) shall make available the information of declaration furnished by the person referred to in sub-rule (3) to the Principal Chief Commissioner or Chief Commissioner or Principal Commissioner or Commissioner to whom the Assessing Officer having jurisdiction to assess the person who has furnished the declaration under sub-section (1) or under sub-section (1A) or under sub-section (1C) of section 197A is sub-ordinate.]
---END OF RULE---